CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Copy ##

- Titles and navigation links should only capitalise first letter, not every word.
- URLs should use hyphens, not underscores.
- Follow the [style guide](https://www.gov.uk/designprinciples/styleguide).

## Code ##

- Don't commit additional whitespace
- Use ruby 1.9.2 hash syntax wherever possible
- Models should have:
  - All associations at the top
  - Then any scopes
  - Then validations
  - Then code

## Testing ##

Write tests.

### Cucumber ###

- Only test the "happy path" behaviour, not exceptional behaviour.
- Only describe things that should *happen*, not things that shouldn't.
- Prefer large descriptive steps to small reusable ones.  DRY can be achieved at the Ruby level.
- Prefer steps written at a high level of abstraction.
- Write steps to be independent, not relying on the user being on a certain page.
- Avoid testing negatives; these are better tested in functional/unit tests.
- Avoid testing incidental behaviour (e.g. flash messages); these are better tested in functional/unit tests.
- Never call a cucumber step from within another one; extract the behaviour into a method which can be called from both.

Commit message:

Add section on Git workflow to guidelines

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Git workflow ##

- Make a feature branch
- Work in any way you like
- Rebase your branch into logical commits before sending a pull request -
  follow our [Git styleguide](https://github.com/alphagov/styleguides/blob/master/git.md)
- If you're working off the [Pivotal backlog](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/s/projects/367813),
  include the ticket number in the pull request details
- Pull requests are automatically integration tested using [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/alphagov/whitehall),
  which will report back on whether the tests still pass on your
  branch
- You *may* rebase your branch after feedback if it's to include include relevant updates to the master branch. We prefer a rebase here to a merge commit as we prefer a clean and straight history on master with discreet merge commits for features
- When merging a pull request, include the Pivotal ticket in the merge commit details.

## Copy ##

- Titles and navigation links should only capitalise first letter, not every word.
- URLs should use hyphens, not underscores.
- Follow the [style guide](https://www.gov.uk/designprinciples/styleguide).

## Code ##

- Don't commit additional whitespace
- Use ruby 1.9.2 hash syntax wherever possible
- Models should have:
  - All associations at the top
  - Then any scopes
  - Then validations
  - Then code

## Testing ##

Write tests.

### Cucumber ###

- Only test the "happy path" behaviour, not exceptional behaviour.
- Only describe things that should *happen*, not things that shouldn't.
- Prefer large descriptive steps to small reusable ones.  DRY can be achieved at the Ruby level.
- Prefer steps written at a high level of abstraction.
- Write steps to be independent, not relying on the user being on a certain page.
- Avoid testing negatives; these are better tested in functional/unit tests.
- Avoid testing incidental behaviour (e.g. flash messages); these are better tested in functional/unit tests.
- Never call a cucumber step from within another one; extract the behaviour into a method which can be called from both.
